Douglas Denlinger: Some you know how to go to the doctor and get pain pills and
Douglas Denlinger: And when I got that shoulder injury I that's the pain pills or where I wrote lost control and started to, you know, a couple years of just taking too many of those pain pills that were being prescribed to me. And then, you know, I started, you know, talking to more than one doctor at a time.
Douglas Denlinger: Or I'd start buying something from somebody and then
Douglas Denlinger: Still get my prescription for my doctor back and forth and just messing messing around with the pain pills is where I really kind of lost control and wasn't able to
Douglas Denlinger: physical addiction. I wasn't able to get off of those. And I went, what almost two or three years of
Douglas Denlinger: being addicted to pain pills and to the point where it was, you know, getting really bad at the end where I was buying, you know, larger amounts of pills is getting really expensive got really close to losing the house and the job and all the stuff with my family and everything and
Douglas Denlinger: That's when 2009 I
Douglas Denlinger: My wife didn't know anything about it either. So I basically told her what was going on and that I needed help, and I checked myself into a 30 day rehab.
Serenna Beers: Okay. So just to recap, because unfortunately I did not hit. I didn't unpause the recording button. So I need to say it for transcription
Serenna Beers: Purposes, because we have somebody who will take this video and then transcribe it into note. So it started with because you've been with
Serenna Beers: Doc Dr groves for about the last seven, eight years and then when her practice change to bright heart health. You just continued your care with with her, but you were established with
Serenna Beers: Doc Dr groves your history with substances. I mean you experimented did different things pot. I think you said alcohol. I'm not sure if there was any other drugs, but that was kind of
Serenna Beers: A recreational things until you blew your shoulder, shoulder out and then that started with the pain meds to the point where you had to start buying them off the street or first you went to different doctors to try to get more pills and then when that wasn't accessible to you.
Serenna Beers: Then you went to buy and pills and then that's when kind of things all went south, you had to let your family know and then you went into tree and right
Serenna Beers: I'm surprised I remembered that
Serenna Beers: Okay, well, and you mentioned because my next thing was going to ask, or the next thing I was going to ask about any prior
Serenna Beers: History with mental health or substance abuse and you mentioned that you went to a treat. Treat treatment center back in 2009. Do you remember the name of it and and and if you finished.
Douglas Denlinger: Yeah I did finish it was 30 day treatment is serenity lane.
Serenna Beers: Serenity lane. I'm familiar with that place.
Douglas Denlinger: Dream Oregon.
Serenna Beers: Yeah, who, who was the doc on staff or do you remember
Douglas Denlinger: No idea.
Okay.
Serenna Beers: Do you have any history of of suicidal ideation or have you ever wanted to harm yourself or anyone else.
Douglas Denlinger: Yeah, okay.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so tell me about growing up. Like, what was your family, family life. Like, were you adopted. Were you raised by both parents do you have brothers or sisters or your parents still together. Did anybody else in in your in your family's struggle with mental health or substance abuse.
Douglas Denlinger: Had very normal family. My dad was the
Douglas Denlinger: Director of one of the big directors, the Boy Scouts of America and we moved around about every four years for his job. My mom was in the medical profession. She was a hematologist
Douglas Denlinger: So both working parents both were together throughout my entire life still are together so had a good childhood middle class with the high school
Went to college.
Douglas Denlinger: My parents. Nobody had any my, my father always drank had, I would say, had you know some alcoholism, but never lost control. He just seems like he always had that have a drink after work kind of thing you know i again i don't
Douglas Denlinger: I'm not there to describe him as an alcoholic. He like he never really she always had his job. He always work. You never had any issues.
Douglas Denlinger: But you know whether or not he could stop drinking it. Any point. I'm not sure. So I'd say some alcohol stuff in my family, but not crazy. No, no. Crazy drug abuse.
Douglas Denlinger: I do have a sister one sister still live in
Douglas Denlinger: About four hours from here and have a good relationship with her.
Douglas Denlinger: That's actually a
Douglas Denlinger: She's actually a licensed
Douglas Denlinger: Psychologist she's what a social worker.
Okay.
Douglas Denlinger: But that's, yeah, pretty normal upbringing and
Douglas Denlinger: No crazy
Serenna Beers: No crazy stuff.
Douglas Denlinger: My family. No.
Serenna Beers: No. Okay. What about tell me what what school was like for for for for us specifically like how how far did. Did you go. Did you go all the way to the 12th grade or or higher. Did you struggle with any learning disabilities. Were there any events that stood out to you, growing up at all.
Douglas Denlinger: School was I went to good schools. I went to high school finished graduated went to two different colleges. I never did finish college but that's what's led me in my career. I'm in while I'm a wildland firefighter now.
Douglas Denlinger: I run a large hot shot crew.
Douglas Denlinger: Out of my area here and
Douglas Denlinger: So yeah, I found it. I never finished college, but I did to go to school for Fire Science, which led me into my career that I just kind of left school because I already had the job that I needed.
Douglas Denlinger: But
Douglas Denlinger: Yeah, that was school, like I said, I probably finished.
Douglas Denlinger: I did four years after high school, but then never actually got a degree when school for construction management and Wildland Fire Science
Serenna Beers: Okay. Wow. Um, what about did you ever serve in the military.
Serenna Beers: No. Okay. And are you in a relationship, I think you said that you're married right
Serenna Beers: And
Serenna Beers: You have. Do you, do you have any kids.
Douglas Denlinger: One on law. The 13 year old boy.
Serenna Beers: Okay, and I assume you live with your wife and your and your son.
Serenna Beers: And then tell me, tell me a few things that you hope to get out of being with us. I mean is, is there anything new that you want to learn. I mean, it sounds like you have a pretty good.
Serenna Beers: Recovery stance like you seem pretty stable with with that. But is there anything, anything that we could provide you with. Is there any educational things that you want to learn or anything like like that.
Douglas Denlinger: No, I don't.
Douglas Denlinger: Very good. Pretty good spot with, you know, I've done years and years of a and na
Douglas Denlinger: As well as been with Dr. Gross for a lot of years now. And in part of her Suboxone group that meets in Crescent City.
Douglas Denlinger: I really don't have any needs from bright heart health, to be quite honest with you, other than to be continuing my carrot. Dr. Gross.
Serenna Beers: Okay, um, let me just look
Serenna Beers: Cuz I can talk with her about it, but I wanted to see your file as far as what the expectation is as far as you being you meeting with a therapist because I do think that there are some
Serenna Beers: Qualifications like you know whether we meet once a month to check in, or something like like that, as far as, as far as
Serenna Beers: being compliant with the pain management, but maybe I can send her a message like on here, it says on your file twice a month, but I can talk to Dr groves and see what she wants me to do with them.
Douglas Denlinger: What what I need to know too is, I was pretty straight honest and asked a lot of questions when I started this process and I was told I really only needed to see you once because it was part of the process that I
Douglas Denlinger: Guess you therapist, so
Serenna Beers: Well, that's
Douglas Denlinger: Probably true then and then on top of that, when I so here's the deal when every time I go to one of these groups with bright heart the actual Open Group with Dr groves.
Douglas Denlinger: And then the other people that are part of the group at the same time there's a therapist and Dr grows in that group. So that's two co pays right there.
Douglas Denlinger: Plus, if I have to see you.
Douglas Denlinger: A month or say twice a year, whatever it is not that money is that big of a deal, but we're talking $30 per provider.
Douglas Denlinger: Just to see Dr groves.
Douglas Denlinger: To have a group meeting have that group meeting with other people that are in recovery which is I still don't mind doing but $60 every time I do a group with bright heart and then $30 every time I see a therapist that you know I'm not personally looking to see no
Douglas Denlinger: Nothing against you.
Douglas Denlinger: Oh, that
Serenna Beers: That doesn't know personalizing it.
Douglas Denlinger: Talking 90 bucks every, you know, all these visits, it's, you know, that's kind of where I'm at, to have stuff set up that doesn't cost me any money. A na I have Dr groves and her staff that I
Douglas Denlinger: Regularly part of I still go see Tony over it del Norte community health center. I'm still part of their Suboxone group.
Douglas Denlinger: Okay. Um, I have
Douglas Denlinger: She's an addiction counselor therapist that I can walk into her office right off the street, and he today. Anytime the week.
Douglas Denlinger: And have the conversation with her, and I'm not hooked to a computer, I can actually
Douglas Denlinger: Okay.
Serenna Beers: Physical Contact I
Serenna Beers: Mean not you know like we physically see in
Serenna Beers: Person. Yeah. Um, well, I mean, I, I'm not going to schedule you. I mean, if I'm told differently then then that's a conversation, but that will probably be a conversation between you and Dr groves.
Serenna Beers: So I so I'm just going to hold hold off and I'm gonna and the transcription notes. It'll, it'll say that you have. You're very solid you're very stable. And so the recommendation going forward is just that you attend those groups for pain management.
Serenna Beers: Purposes and and and i'm sure that it sounds like that that was already in agreement that that you made so
Douglas Denlinger: Yeah, for instance, I only have to see.
Serenna Beers: You just froze.
Douglas Denlinger: Fills for the Suboxone
Douglas Denlinger: And then I only have to do the group and what she heard I have set up so that the bright heart.
Douglas Denlinger: Group meeting is also once every three months when I do my get my refill.
Serenna Beers: Oh,
Serenna Beers: Okay, well, then I wouldn't see why you need
Douglas Denlinger: Gotcha. Alright. So sounds like that is what you're supposed to do. So I will not
Serenna Beers: Try to schedule you or anything like like like that they may want you to see me once every three months to check in. I doubt it, but it sounds like you have a pretty
Serenna Beers: Solid found station so I definitely don't want to mess with that, but I do wish you the best stay safe and stay well. And thank you for your time and being honest with all of these questions.
Douglas Denlinger: You're welcome. Thank you.
Serenna Beers: Okay. Okay. Thanks. Bye.
Serenna Beers: Sounds like this gentleman says per Dr groves that he doesn't have to attend.
Serenna Beers: Therapy, so I will follow up with Dr groves about this.